Guest blog: Dustin Farris - Infrastructure Testing Got Better (#3306)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/infrastructure-testing-got-better/index.md

---

> title: "Infrastructure Testing Just Got Better with Pulumi"

Reviewer: Sorry, I think I missed this while reviewing the Google Doc. I'm wondering if we can have a straightforward title since it's a guest blog post. Something like "Infrastructure Testing at Scale with Pulumi's Unit Testing Capabilities"? I feel like "Just Got Better" is very sales sounding and not very descriptive.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest something like "At Scale Infrastructure Testing With Pulumi"

date: 2020-05-13

> meta_desc: "Pulumi accelerates infrastructure testing 6000x with mocking and unit tests."

Reviewer: The 6000x is unqualified. Also, later I saw we came to this 6000x from 6000% in which case, this ought to be 60x. Maybe let's go with "60x faster"?

Reviewer 2: agreed

Ideally, a unit test should demonstrate that a new component or resource works in isolation from other dependencies.  Resource mocking mimics complex infrastructure in lieu of spinning up the dedicated infrastructure for a test (which would be slow and potentially expensive.) This step is critical for preventing configuration mistakes from reaching production.

The unit test suite for our data lake consists of over 700 tests and previously took almost 20 minutes to execute.  With improvements to StackReference mocking and the new ‘monitor mock’ feature, these same tests now run in about 20 seconds.  _That’s a 6000% improvement over our previous performance!_

## Getting Started with Resource Mocking

> Continuously testing resource definitions is a best practice and it’s incredibly easy to get started. In this example, we mock a resource name to attach to an IAM Policy Role. The test returns the ARN and the name of any resource, which is the Policy Role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuously testing resource definitions is a best practice and it’s incredibly easy to get started. In this example, we mock a resource name to attach to an IAM Policy Role. The test checks that we attach the correct policy to the expected role.
```

> test-setup.ts

Reviewer 2: I was under the impression that we were going to add a different test example here. @spara what is the plan here?

Second, creating standard infrastructure stacks for the team helps everyone move faster.  We create environments for each developer in separate AWS accounts so they can develop features without impacting other developers and we don’t have to wait for central IT to provision resources. Pulumi’s support for ephemeral environments means that developers can spin-up and spin-down stacks quickly, in order to verify that changes to the desired state are actually reflected in the provisioned resources.  This makes integration testing far easier, and ephemeral environments keep cloud costs down because they are easily destroyed when they are no longer needed.

Ideally, a unit test should demonstrate that a new component or resource works in isolation from other dependencies.  Resource mocking mimics complex infrastructure in lieu of spinning up the dedicated infrastructure for a test (which would be slow and potentially expensive.) This step is critical for preventing configuration mistakes from reaching production.

> The unit test suite for our data lake consists of over 700 tests and previously took almost 20 minutes to execute.  With improvements to StackReference mocking and the new ‘monitor mock’ feature, these same tests now run in about 20 seconds.  _That’s a 60x faster over our previous performance!_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unit test suite for our data lake consists of over 700 tests and previously took almost 20 minutes to execute.  With improvements to StackReference mocking and the new ‘monitor mock’ feature, these same tests now run in about 20 seconds.  _That’s 60x faster over our previous performance!_
```

Ideally, a unit test should demonstrate that a new component or resource works in isolation from other dependencies.  Resource mocking mimics complex infrastructure in lieu of spinning up the dedicated infrastructure for a test (which would be slow and potentially expensive.) This step is critical for preventing configuration mistakes from reaching production.

The unit test suite for our data lake consists of over 700 tests and previously took almost 20 minutes to execute.  With improvements to StackReference mocking and the new ‘monitor mock’ feature, these same tests now run in about 20 seconds.  _That’s 60x faster over our previous performance!_

## Getting Started with Resource Mocking

Continuously testing resource definitions is a best practice and it’s incredibly easy to get started. In this example, we mock a resource name to attach to an IAM Policy Role. The test checks that we attach the correct policy to the expected role.

> test-setup.ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**test-setup.ts**
```

```ts
/**
 * Create the mock resource
 */
pulumi.runtime.setMocks({
   newResource: function (
       resourceType: string,
       name: string,
       inputs: any,
       provider?: string,
       id?: string,
   ): { id: string; state: Record<string, any> } {
       const defaultState = {
           arn: `${name}-arn`,
           name: name,
           ...inputs,
       };
       // Use id unless it's blank or missing.
       const resourceId = id?.trim() ? id : `${name}-id`;
       return { id: resourceId, state: defaultState };
   },
   call: function (): Record<string, any> {
       return {};
   },
});
```

> infra.ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**infra.ts**
```

```ts
export const attachment = new aws.iam.RolePolicyAttachment(
   "role-policy-attachment",
   {
       policyArn: policy.arn,
       role: role.name,
   },
);
```

> infra.spec.ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**infra.spec.ts**
```

```ts
/**
 * Returns a resource output's value, even if it's undefined.
 */
const getOutput = <T>(output: pulumi.Output<T>): Promise<T | undefined> =>
   (output as any).promise() as Promise<T>;
​
describe("attachment", () => {
   it("attaches the policy", async () => {
       assert.equal(
           await getOutput(attachment.policyArn),
           await getOutput(policy.arn),
       );
   });
   it("attaches to the role", async () => {
       assert.equal(
           await getOutput(attachment.role),
           await getOutput(role.name),
       );
   });
});
```

The key part is that we never actually talk to the cloud provider. Instead, we are able to mock the output values that we’d typically expect to have from using the provider such as the ARN. In the above example, you can see we simply mock out the ARN by returning “${name}-arn” instead of whatever the cloud provider would actually assign. There are many powerful ways to use this mocking to ensure that certain output properties are set or to mock the return of certain lookup calls to the cloud provider.

## Testing with Policies

> In addition to resource testing with mocks, we can test the entire stack with policies. This example ensures that the EKs cluster uses version 1.13 deployed on a custom VPC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to resource testing with mocks, we can test the entire stack with policies. This example ensures that the EKS cluster uses version 1.13 deployed on a custom VPC.
```

> infrastructure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**infras.ts**
```

```ts
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";
import * as eks from "@pulumi/eks";

// Create a custom VPC.
const vpc = new awsx.ec2.Vpc("my-vpc");

// Create a basic EKS cluster.
const cluster = new eks.Cluster("my-cluster", {
    desiredCapacity: 2,
    minSize: 1,
    maxSize: 2,
    storageClasses: "gp2",
    deployDashboard: false,
    version: "1.13",
    vpcId: vpc.id,
    subnetIds: vpc.publicSubnetIds,
});
```

> policy test:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**policy.ts**
```
